Adding information about the decoding attribute (#27166)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/svg/attribute/decoding/index.md

---
title: decoding
slug: Web/SVG/Attribute/decoding
page-type: svg-attribute
browser-compat: svg.elements.image.decoding
---

{{SVGRef}}

> The `decoding` attribute, valid on {{SVGElement("image")}} elements, provides a hint to the browser as to whether it should perform image decoding synchronously or asynchronously.
> 
> In theory, this attribute provides a hint to the browser as to whether it should perform image decoding along with rendering other content in a single presentation step that looks more "correct" (`sync`), or render and present the other content first and then decode the image and present it later (`async`). In practice, `async` means that the next paint does not wait for the image to decode. It does not make decoding happen off the main thread; modern browsers do this anyway.
> 
> In reality, using `decoding` on static `<image>` elements is often not very useful. It is likely that they'll be initially rendered as empty images while the image files are fetched (either from the network or from the cache) and then handled independently anyway. As a result, it is often almost impossible to notice differences in these settings. `decoding` is somewhat more useful when dynamically inserting `<image>` elements into the DOM via JavaScript — see {{domxref("SVGImageElement.decoding")}}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `decoding` attribute, valid on {{SVGElement("image")}} elements, provides a hint to the browser as to whether it should perform image decoding synchronously or asynchronously.

This attribute provides a hint to the browser as to whether it should perform image decoding along with rendering other content in a single presentation step that looks more "correct" (`sync`), or render and present the other content first and then decode the image and present it later (`async`). In practice, `async` means that the next paint does not wait for the image to decode.

It is often difficult to perceive differences in using `decoding` on static `<img>` elements. It is likely that they'll be initially rendered as empty images while the image files are fetched (either from the network or from the cache) and then handled independently anyway, so the "syncing" of content updates is less apparent. However, the blocking of rendering while decoding happens, while often quite small, can be measured—even if it is difficult to observe with the human eye. Using different `decoding` types can result in more noticeable differences when dynamically inserting `<image>` elements into the DOM via JavaScript — see {{domxref("SVGImageElement.decoding")}}.
```

Allowed values:

- `sync`
  - : Decode the image synchronously along with rendering the other content, and present everything together.
- `async`
  - : Decode the image asynchronously, after rendering and presenting the other content.
- `auto`
  - : No preference for the decoding mode; the browser decides what is best for the user. This is the default value.

> ## Example

Reviewer: If accepting the above changes then review this too.

Author: Equivalent changes made on the `SVG`/`SVGImageElement` pages too.

```html
<svg width="200" height="200" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg">
  <image
    href="https://example.com/mdn_logo_dark.png"
    height="200"
    width="200"
    decoding="async" />
</svg>
```

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}

## See also

> - [SVGImageElement: decoding property](/en-US/docs/Web/API/SVGImageElement/decoding)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [SVGImageElement: decoding property](/en-US/docs/Web/API/SVGImageElement/decoding)
- [What does the image decoding attribute actually do?](https://www.tunetheweb.com/blog/what-does-the-image-decoding-attribute-actually-do/) on tunetheweb.com (2023)
```
```
